---
layout: post_teaching
title: First day of class
category: biostat203bwinter2021
---

Welcome to Biostat 203B: *Introduction to Data Science*. 

## Today

* Introduction and course logistics  
* Linux basics

## Zoom tips

- If you have not used Zoom before, please download the most recent version of Zoom and learn some basics such as mute and unmute audio/video, raise hand, chat, virtual background (so people don't see your actual background), and so on.

- Good internet connection is critical. For example WIFI at Starbucks will not work well. Have a plan where you are going to take classes on Zoom. On campus WIFI (`UCLA-WIFI`, `EDUROAM`, etc) have good bandwidth (with good enough signal). But as of today (Jan 5th, 2021), the stay-at-home order by the State and LA County is still in effect and you are **not** supposed to come to campus. Please pay close attention to the COVID-19 related university announcements at <http://ucla.in/coronavirus>. 

  Usual residential internet service seems sufficient. For example my home has ATT 50Mbps service. My Zoom sessions usually go smooth, even with >5 devices actively streaming at the same time (I have two kids at home). 

  If you WIFI signal is not ideal, you may consider connecting your computer to the WIFI router directly using an ethernet cable.  
  
- When the connection is really bad, you can call in at one of following numbers. You can still keep your Zoom session on your computer so you can see the screen. 
```
Join Zoom Meeting
https://ucla.zoom.us/j/98086071073

Meeting ID: 980 8607 1073
One tap mobile
+16692192599,,98086071073# US (San Jose)
+12133388477,,98086071073# US (Los Angeles)

Dial by your location
        +1 669 219 2599 US (San Jose)
        +1 213 338 8477 US (Los Angeles)
        +1 602 753 0140 US (Phoenix)
        +1 720 928 9299 US (Denver)
        +1 971 247 1195 US (Portland)
        +1 253 215 8782 US (Tacoma)
        +1 346 248 7799 US (Houston)
        +1 786 635 1003 US (Miami)
        +1 301 715 8592 US (Washington D.C)
        +1 312 626 6799 US (Chicago)
        +1 470 250 9358 US (Atlanta)
        +1 646 558 8656 US (New York)
        +1 651 372 8299 US (Minnesota)
Meeting ID: 980 8607 1073
Find your local number: https://ucla.zoom.us/u/adfbgVRvsV
```

- It's very helpful to wear headphone or mute yourself while others are speaking in Zoom. Of course, remember to unmute yourself before you speak.

- It's good etiquette to keep your video on, unless you have limited internet bandwidth. 

- Please use your real name in Zoom so others know who they are talking to.

- In most lectures, I will go over code (R, Linux, etc). It can be hard to follow the Zoom and at the same time run your own code on the same screen. If you have separate devices, for example, an iPad, then you can use the iPad for Zoom and run code on your laptop or PC. 


## Assignment (not graded)

* Fill out a short [survey](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/F9NL7H9). It helps me better tailor the course to your background.

* If you have not used R/RStudio before, 
  0. Download and install R v3.6.0 or later versions from a CRAN mirror, e.g., <https://ftp.osuosl.org/pub/cran/>   
  0. Download and install RStudio Desktop Open Source Edition from <https://www.rstudio.com/products/rstudio/#Desktop>  
  0. For **Windows users**, follow the instructions in this [tutorial](https://ucla-biostat203b-2021winter.github.io/labs/lab01/lab01_windows.html) to install Git for Windows (Git Bash)  
  
* Accessing the teaching server:
  0. There is a teaching server you use for exercise and homework. The ip address is `server.ucla-biostat-203b.com` or `35.236.3.110`, accessible via SSH.  
  0. Wifi: Be aware that `UCLA_WEB` is restricted to HTTP and HTTPS. Use `UCLA_WIFI` or `eduroam` for accessing teaching server. See <https://humtech.ucla.edu/computing-support/wifi/> for details.   
  0. An account has been created for those enrolled in the class as of Jan 2nd, 2021. Those enrolled the class after 1/2/2021 can ask instructor to create an account for you. The username is same as that in your **email address in MyUCLA**. The temporary password is same as your username. E.g., if you email in MyUCLA is `joe_bruin@ucla.edu`, then the username for your account on teaching server is `joe_bruin` and the temporary password is `203b`.    
  0. Log in teaching server by `ssh username@server.ucla-biostat-203b.com` on Mac terminal or Git Bash on Windows.  
  0. After log in using your temporary password, issue command `passwd` to change your password to a more secure one *immediately*. If you don't change your password, anyone can log in your account and mess up your files.  
  0. Later we will learn how to set up the more secure key authentication.  
  0. Both `R` and `RStudio`  are installed on the teaching server. You can access and use `RStudio` on the server by pointing your browser to address [http://server.ucla-biostat-203b.com:8787](http://server.ucla-biostat-203b.com:8787).  
  0. This server is for education purpose. You are **not** allowed to run simulations or any program unrelated to this class.
